Title:			Title  
Subtitle:		Subtitle  
Author:			Ken E Roberts  
Affiliation:	9ci, Inc.  
Date:			February 27, 2012  
Copyright:		2012 Ken E Roberts.  
				This work is licensed under a Creative Commons License.  
				http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5/
Keywords:		
CSS:            ../css/main.css
CSS:			../css/menu.css
CSS:			../css/pdf.css
CSS:			../css/ref.css

# Miscellaneous #

## Configuration ##

Here is an example config with explanations

	grails {
	    plugin {
	        freemarker {
            
	            /* A list of template loaderinstances or strings - Strings will be used as beanNames. */
	            preTemplateLoaders = ['myCustomPreLoaderService']

				/* a list of any additional paths to search in. this can be any valid resource that spring accepts */
	            templateLoaderPaths = ['some/path/to/views','classpath:com/corp/freemarker']
            
	            /* A list of template loaders or strings - Strings will be used as beanNames. */
	            postTemplateLoaders = ['myCustomPostLoaderService']

				//tries to find templates by appending the local to the name.
				//an odd feature in freemarker that is true by default
				localizedLookup = false
			
				//when referencing a freemarker view name then require the .ftl suffix
				requireViewSuffix = true
            
	            viewResolver { 
					/*blow exception in resolver or swallow it and move on */
	                hideException = false //default
	            }

	            tags {
					/* whether to enable the grails taglibs in the templates */
	                enabled = true //default
	            }
	            //extra settings to pass straight through to the Freemarker Configuration
				//see http://freemarker.sourceforge.net/docs/api/freemarker/template/Configuration.html#setSetting(java.lang.String, java.lang.String)
				//http://freemarker.sourceforge.net/docs/api/freemarker/core/Configurable.html#setSetting(java.lang.String, java.lang.String)
			
				configSettings{
					//for example this will set it to be more secure and allows no user class resolution.
					new_builtin_class_resolver = 'allows_nothing'
					//simple is the most secure and means that only recognized objects in model can be accessed 
					//(String,Date,Number,Boolean,Collection,Map,Iterator,isArray, or TemplateModel)
					//simple will only allow field access and never method calls. 
					//Best to pass in a Map of Maps for the hash model for the highest level of security
					object_wrapper = 'simple'
				}

	        }
	    }
	}

## Logging ##

You can enable plugin activity logging using the namespace 'grails.plugin.freemarker'.

For more information about Grails logging, please consult:
[Grails Logging](http://grails.org/doc/latest/guide/3.%20Configuration.html#3.1.2%20Logging)

## Reserved Words ##

FreeMarker reserved words present in Grails Core TagLibs that can cause errors to FreeMarker's parser, will be
preceded by '_' (underscore).

.gsp  
	&lt;g:renderErrors bean="${myUserInstance}" as="list" />

.ftl  
	&lt;@g.renderErrors bean=myUserInstance _as="list" />

or  
	[@g.renderErrors bean=myUserInstance _as="list" /]



