# Usage

The plugin will try to expose all the TagLib artefacts, registered at grailsApplication.tagLibsClasses, as
user-defined directives and functions (for implementation details, please refer to
[FreeMarker FAQ](http://freemarker.sourceforge.net/docs/app_faq.html#faq_implement_function_or_macro_in_java) ).
These directives and functions will be defined at runtime and exposed as shared variables, using the same namespace
of the source taglibs, in any FreeMarker template created further.

>Warning:
>Be aware that some templates can mistakenly/inadvertently "shadow" shared variables definitions.

## Syntax tips (GSP vs. FTL)

The following items contain useful information about some of the differences between Grails Server Pages (.gsp) and
FreeMarker Templates (.ftl). Please note this is not intended to be a complete list, it's just a starting point for
begginers.

### Maps vs. Hashes

.gsp  
	[key1: 'abc', key2: 2]


.ftl  -- *note that you must enclose the keys names with quotes.*  
	{'key1': 'abc', 'key2': 2}

### Tags vs. Tags

.gsp  
	&lt;g:includeJs script="myscript" />

.ftl  
	&lt;@g.includeJs script="myscript" />

or  
	[@g.includeJs script="myscript" /]


Parameter values are (arbitrary complex) expressions that are not quoted. So assuming you want to pass an integer to
foo, <\@foo bar=1 /> is good, but <\@foo bar="1" /> is wrong as it passes in the value as a string (because "1" is a
string literal, just like in Groovy). For the same reason, <\@foo bar=x+1 /> is good, but <\@foo bar="${x+1}" />
does something else.

### Tags as method calls vs. Method calls

.gsp  
	&lt;span id="title" class="label ${hasErrors(bean:book,field:'title','errors')}">Title&lt;/span>

.ftl -- *note that the arguments are passed in as a hash (map) enclosed in {}, also remember to enclose your key names in
quotes*  
	&lt;span id="title" class="label ${g.hasErrors({'bean':book,'field':'title'},'errors')}">Title&lt;/span>


>Note:
>The plugin will define functions using the same namespace of the corresponding directives.
All functions will receive two parameters, at most: a hash and an evaluated string. 


## Render

This plugin adds a few new valid arguments to the controller's render method

plugin - allows you to specify a plugin for resolution

example (assume this is called from FooController):  
	render view:'gotView.ftl', plugin:'free-bird'

plugin resolution precedence for 'foo/gotView.ftl'. Will return the first one it finds

1. if any preTemplateLoaders are set in config then look there for 'foo/gotView.ftl'
2. look in the application's view dir for 'foo/gotView.ftl'
3. look in the free-bird plugin for foo/gotView.ftl
4. if any postTemplateLoaders are specified then call those as well

loaderAttribute - assign an attribute that can be retrieved from the request later on in the Loader  
	render view:'gotView.ftl', plugin:'free-bird', loaderAttribute:'gorm'

If your custom preTemplateLoader is expensive or only for "special" views then you can check for the presence of 'gorm' and only continue if its present.
This allows better performance, for example, if you are resolving view from a database and only want to try if its specified. otherwise every resolution might attempt the expensive resolution operation. A good examples exists in the test/projects/gorm-loader

## Services

There are 2 services that you can inject to help render templates. The FreemarkerViewService and FreemarkerTemplateService

FreemarkerViewService

Methods

/ * this is the one you will primarily use * /  

*	Writer render(String viewName , Map model, Writer writer = new CharArrayWriter(), String pluginName = null)
*	Writer render(View view , Map model, Writer writer = new CharArrayWriter() , String pluginName = null)
*	View getView(String viewName, String pluginName = null, boolean removePluginNameFromThread = true) 

The methods are safe to use in a thread or quartz job. It checks to see that a Request is bound to the thread and if not is goes through the process of binding one so that the taglibs work properly for items like g.message and g.resource


